well US Secretary of State's going to
head to the Middle East later on
Thursday on a trip that's expected to
include a stop in Israel Anthony blink's
previous trip to Israel was during a
7-Day pause in fighting Lincoln's visit
comes at a period of heightened tension
in the region following the killing of a
senior Hamas figure in Lebanon we're
going to speak to Laura Khan who's in
occupied East Jerusalem so Anthony
blinkin making this uh this second trip
at a time when the region is facing a
greater risk of this conflict in Gaza
spreading uh outwards which is precisely
of course what the Us and other foreign
governments do not
want oh well absolutely they don't want
it and they are really here of course to
calm recent tensions it's not just
Anthony blinkin who will be going to
Middle Eastern countries as well as
Israel but also Amos huttin he's a top
us Diplomat um to the Biden
Administration he has dealt with um
issues between Hezbollah and Israel
before but this comes at a very
important time he is here to calm
tensions with Hezbollah after Salah aori
the top um Hamas official was killed on
Lebanese soil with a possibility of
provoking a much larger conflict away
from Israel Benjamin Netanyahu the
Israeli Prime Minister has already said
he's fighting a war on seven fronts and
this includes Lebanon the occupied West
Bank Gaza among other Regional Neighbors
so they are here um to well in their
words um to restore some calm um but it
also comes that South Africa has a
filing against Israel for genocide more
than 22,000 people have been killed in
Gaza and around 7,000 people are missing
possibly buried under the
rubble Laura we mentioned at the top of
the show that uh the Israeli raids and
part of the occupied West Bank have been
uh still going on now you and the teams
have been reporting on them for several
weeks now but these ones these latest
ones seem to be going on for a great
many more hours than we've seen in the
past well absolutely in the spe one of
the specific raids you're referring to
is in a refugee camp called noran is
just east of the city of tolam in the
north now the Israeli forces entered
more than 30 hours ago they brought
armored bulldozers they've been pulling
up the streets they've been destroying
infrastructure they've set up sniper
positions on the roof there has been
some armed confrontations happening
between the two there's been a lot of
resistance coming from the Palestinians
we do know that many Palestinian men
have been taken out of the camp they've
been interrogated on the field and more
than 250 people have been prevented from
entering the camp we also know they've
been preventing access um from
ambulances we don't yet know how many
injuries there are in the camp just
through lack of access also into bus not
far from there there's been armed
confrontations between uh Israelis and
Palestinians after Israeli forces
entered the camp many hours ago at least
one Palestinian has been killed but uh
we've seen raids throughout the occupied
West Bank um in the early hours of the
morning and this is no different um to
every day since October the 7th uh there
almost been a root canal from the north
to the South um from Janine down to
Hebron um so it is ongoing certainly in
Nora shamps and we'll keep you updated
Laura thank you very much indeed Laura
Khan in occupied East
Jerusalem